Although many of our construction projects are the result of growth in a branch territory,
our donations also are put to good use when disaster strike.
The organization is quick to respond to the needs of our brothers and sisters in affected
areas.
This includes the distribution of release supplies.
It also involves helping our brothers repair or rebuild their homes and kingdom halls.
This was the case in 2011 when a large tornado ripped through the state of Missouri in the
United States.
When a disaster strikes, the disaster relief does take the lead in caring for the needs
of the field.
This is done by using volunteers.
Our brothers know how to work together.
We're using volunteers that are used to crawling over each other and working in a kingdom hall.
So they have the ability to get into a disaster situation and take direction and just take
care of it.
It's an evaluation process to see what's needed.
Then the purchasing department locally will then go ahead and start buying materials.
Those will be delivered and volunteers will come to prepare the home back to livable
conditions so that our brothers and sisters can get back into their homes.
So we stabilize the friends, we stabilize the houses, and we can stabilize the congregation.
We had a group of brothers that went in to drop them as early after the tornado destroyed
30% of the city.
We had probably 30, 40 volunteers working on the house.
And a woman comes down the street from the neighborhood.
She sees all the volunteers working.
She thinks it's a construction organization.
She says, can I pay you to come over and fix my garage?
It was basically a shed that had been picked up off the slab and turned upside down and
moved a few feet away from the slab.
So the brothers said, well, let's go take a look at it.
So they went over and they took a look at it.
It wasn't that hard.
The shed was still intact.
They said, we could do this in a few minutes.
So they went and got all their volunteers.
They went over, they picked the shed up.
They got about 30 brothers on it and they turned it over and put it on the slab.
And the woman was so thankful.
She says, OK, so what do I owe you?
They said, no, we're all volunteers.
We're joeous witnesses.
We're working through the local kingdom hall here, a relief center.
And she says, you're kidding me.
You're all volunteers.
She says, yeah.
And we're out.
She says, what are you doing here?
So we're out working on our brothers and sisters' homes and trying to help them get stabilized.
She was in tears.
She came back down the street a few minutes later with a lot of money in her hand.
She said, I want to tell you a story.
She says, I called my church after this happened.
And I asked them to come work, do this work for me, to put this shed back on its slab.
They said, we can do that.
We'll be there in about three weeks and it's going to cost you this much.
She says, and here you folks come over to my house.
You don't charge me.
You don't even know who I am.
And you put my home back together.
What I needed have done, she says, here's the money.
You have this.
You put it in your contribution box.
When someone helps in building a kingdom hall, when someone helps in building an assembly
hall, when someone aids in caring for a natural disaster, their lives are changed forever.
When someone is benefited by one of these programs, their lives are changed forever.
The love demonstrated in the organization is truly faith strengthening to see.
The same arrangement to respond to disasters is in place all around the world.